Welcome to EmotionRL, the first game made with my Perl roguelike engine! I'm
extremely proud of this creation and everything the project has taught me. I
started the PerlRL engine last summer to distract myself from lessons of life I 
wasn't ready to face, and now I continue it to understand those lessons.
EmotionRL's content itself was created in less than a month. I have had a great
deal of fun working on this project.

EmotionRL is a strange first game. As the name suggests, the game is centered
around a theme that hasn't really been explored in roguelikes before. All the
inspiration has come from my own personal experiences. There is something of a
story. The ending scene, which is very special to me, was based on and includes
a poem I wrote.

I release the PerlRL engine and the EmotionRL code under the GNU GPL. You can
take the code, modify it, improve it, and attempt to understand it, but if you
redistribute it, you must keep it under these terms. The PerlRL engine isn't
really ready for a real game to be written with it (besides EmotionRL, of
course), but it'll be there soon. I don't see why PerlRL would harm you or your
PC in any way, but if it happens, I'm not responsible. You should probably let
me know though.

This is very important: The only thing that I will not allow to be reproduced
in any form is my poem in the end scene. It's split up into several parts, most
of which are marked off with quotes. This is my original creation, so hands
off.

To play EmotionRL, you need Perl and a Curses library, basically. The demorl
script should be run for anything that can handle a shell script. I hope it's
playable under Windows by means of pdcurses, but I can't guarantee this. I have
Perl 5.8.8, but 5.6 might work. You need the following modules: Exporter, Cwd,
Data::Dumper, and Curses. All should be in your standard Perl distribution
except for perhaps Curses.

Run demorl, not emotionrl. The former will intelligently capture annoying errors
that would otherwise mess up the ncurses display and log them. Please send any
errors to me over IRC or by posting on rec.games.roguelike.development. If
you're on a platform that doesn't like shell scripts, then just point your Perl
interpreter at emotionrl.

You should play EmotionRL in a terminal at least around 80x25. Some things on
the statusbar might wrap over, but they shouldn't affect gameplay.

EmotionRL takes two options on the command line, which can be combined in any
order. The first, --nocolor, disables color. On my 500Mhz box, the game runs
smoothly enough. If the flicker is too annoying, try the game without color,
though it lessens the gameplay somewhat. Also, at the start of the game, you
have to wade through the introduction to the plot, some instructions, and an
opening room filled with equipment. After you're familiar and bored with this,
pass the --fast option to skip it.

For the game to balance properly, you should try to kill most of the monsters
on a level. You learn some pretty awesome attacks, but only if you gain levels!

If you absolutely can't win the game (It's *ONLY* 20 levels!), use the debug
command. The key defaults to 'D.' It'll take you straight to the ending. I
don't recommend this if you haven't given the game a fair try yet. Having said
that, I really want to hear feedback on the ending, so just make sure you watch
it and get the 'right' ending, one way or another.

Ah, you were probably wondering about the massive 200KB file. I decided to make
a sort of logo or intro screen for EmotionRL. My sister made the sign and took
the picture. The shot features the Love and Fortune cards from my tarot deck,
some lemongrass incense, a random dragon figurine that I guess represents the
dream-like quality of EmotionRL, the peace stone in the game (It really
exists!), the bear my (ex)-girlfriend gave me for Valentine's Day, a lava lamp,
some somewhat trippy curtains, and of course the dreamcatcher that my sister
gave me.

Please send me all comments, questions, bugs, and feedback. You can post on
rec.games.roguelike.development, find me on irc.freenode.net as dabreegster, or
message me on AIM as thebreegster.

Enjoy!

Just to reward you for reading this far (I hope), here's an awesome tip: Once
you're Good or Perfect at the Tears of Rage attack and an enemy is far from a
wall... Well, have fun. SPLAT!
